<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="co_guidelines_for_chunking_content" xml:lang="en-US">
<title>Guidelines for chunking content</title>
<prolog status="new">
<author>Kimberley.De.Moor</author>
<copyright status="new">
<copyryear status="new" year="2019"/>
<copyrholder status="new"/>
</copyright>
<metadata status="new">
<keywords>
<keyword/>
</keywords>
<prodinfo status="new">
<prodname status="new"/>
<vrmlist status="new">
<vrm version="1" release="0" modification="0"/>
</vrmlist>
</prodinfo>
</metadata>
<change-historylist>
<change-item>
<change-person/>
<change-completed/>
<change-summary/>
</change-item>
</change-historylist>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<section id="section_jxp_z5n_sjb">
<p id="p_qxp_z5n_sjb">The first challenge in topic-based authoring is chunking your content into discrete topics. It can be hard to determine the ideal length of a topic: it should be short enough to answer a single question yet still include enough information to stand on its own. Additionally, you should also keep in mind Miller’s law when chunking your content.</p>
</section>
<section id="section_n5v_z5n_sjb">
<title>Answer a single question</title>
<p id="p_o5v_z5n_sjb">Each topic should answer a single question. If you cannot grasp the content of a particular topic with a single question, you should split it into two or more smaller topics.</p>
<p id="p_t2c_bvn_sjb">Which kind of question a particular topic answers, helps you to determine the information type of that topic:<table frame="all" id="table_fbq_dvn_sjb">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Question</entry>
<entry>Information type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>How do I insert batteries in my camera?</entry>
<entry>Task topic</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>What is white balance?</entry>
<entry>Concept topic</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>What do these battery icons mean?</entry>
<entry>Reference topic</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></p>
</section>
<section id="section_v3h_nvn_sjb">
<title>Include enough information</title>
<p id="p_w3h_nvn_sjb">Although a topic should only answer a single question, it should still contain enough information to make sense on its own. Which info the topic has to contain depends on the information type:<table frame="all" id="table_jtp_pvn_sjb">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Information type</entry>
<entry>Has to include enough info to</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Task topic</entry>
<entry>Begin and complete a particular task</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Concept topic</entry>
<entry>Grasp a particular concept</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Reference topic</entry>
<entry>Look up and understand particular information</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></p>
<note id="note_ktw_yvn_sjb">Topics often include related content. A particular task topic can, for example, use concepts that are described in separate concept topics. As a result, it is impossible to make each topic completely autonomous. You can solve that problem by adding related links to your topic (using the <xmlelement>related-links</xmlelement> element); the body part of your topic remains discrete, while you still guide the user to the related information.</note>
</section>
<section id="section_acl_cxn_sjb">
<title>Mind Miller's Law (7±2)</title>
<p id="p_bcl_cxn_sjb">According to Miller’s law, an average person can only hold 7±2 objects in working memory. You should keep in mind this law when chunking content into topics. For instance, if you are writing a task topic and notice that it contains over ten steps, try to reduce the number of steps. You can do this by:<ul id="ul_atg_dyn_sjb">
<li>grouping short steps. <note id="note_csk_gd4_sjb">For example, the following steps:<ol id="ul_xtq_5c4_sjb">
<li>Choose <uicontrol>File</uicontrol></li>
<li>Choose <uicontrol>New</uicontrol></li>
<li>Choose <uicontrol>Topic</uicontrol></li>
</ol>can be grouped into: Choose <menucascade>
<uicontrol>File</uicontrol>
<uicontrol>New</uicontrol>
<uicontrol>Topic</uicontrol>
</menucascade>.</note></li>
<li>splitting your task into two or more subtasks. <note id="note_ucg_3d4_sjb">You can then include an overview topic that describes the entire process and refers to the different steps (subtasks) of that process.</note></li>
</ul></p>
<p id="p_uyc_nd4_sjb">The same goes for other lists. If you have a list of twenty safety instructions, for example, you can group the related instructions in separate sections. You can then also include a specific title for each group of safety instructions, to better guide the users.</p>
</section>
</conbody>
<related-links>
<link href="to_different_levels_of_content_re_use.dita"/>
<link href="co_free_e_learning_course_learningdita.dita"/>
<link href="co_guidelines_for_creating_dita_maps_and_bookmaps.dita"/>
<link href="to_guidelines_for_creating_links.dita"/>
<link href="co_what_is_a_bookmap.dita"/>
<link href="co_what_is_a_dita_map.dita"/>
<link href="co_what_is_a_topic.dita"/>
<link href="co_what_is_an_information_type.dita"/>
</related-links>
</concept>
