<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="co_what_is_an_information_type" xml:lang="en-US">
<title>What is an information type</title>
<prolog status="new">
<author>Kimberley.De.Moor</author>
<copyright status="new">
<copyryear status="new" year="2019"/>
<copyrholder status="new"/>
</copyright>
<metadata status="new">
<keywords>
<keyword/>
</keywords>
<prodinfo status="new">
<prodname status="new"/>
<vrmlist status="new">
<vrm version="1" release="0" modification="0"/>
</vrmlist>
</prodinfo>
</metadata>
<change-historylist>
<change-item>
<change-person/>
<change-completed/>
<change-summary/>
</change-item>
</change-historylist>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>DITA distinguishes different types of topics, each intended for a particular type of information. These topic types are therefore also called information types. A well-written topic includes only one type of information.</p>
<p id="p_mvs_s3q_tjb">The three core information types in DITA are task topics, concept topics and reference topics. Generic topics and composite topics should only be used for specific purposes:<table frame="all" id="table_brk_x3q_tjb">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Type</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><uicontrol>Task</uicontrol></entry>
<entry>Task topics include the steps of a particular task or procedure. They answer the question “How to…?”.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><uicontrol>Concept</uicontrol></entry>
<entry>Concept topics include background information that users must know (e.g. definitions, examples…) before executing a particular task or procedure. They answer the question “What is…?”.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><uicontrol>Reference</uicontrol></entry>
<entry>Reference topics provide quick access to simple facts. Reference information is often presented as a list or a table (e.g. an overview of error codes, a bibliography…).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><uicontrol>Generic</uicontrol></entry>
<entry>Generic topics are designed as a starting point for specialization. We use them, however, to create title-only topics (stub topics) when composing a DITA map.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><uicontrol>Composite</uicontrol></entry>
<entry>Composite topics can include task, concept and reference elements. You can only use these topics to create conref libraries, not to create topics with mixed content.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></p>
<p id="p_syl_djq_tjb">See also: <xref href="co_information_type.dita"/></p>
</conbody>
</concept>
