<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="co_xml_editors" xml:lang="en-US">
<title>XML editors</title>
<prolog status="new">
<author>Kimberley.De.Moor</author>
<copyright status="new">
<copyryear status="new" year="2019"/>
<copyrholder status="new"/>
</copyright>
<metadata status="new">
<keywords>
<keyword/>
</keywords>
<prodinfo status="new">
<prodname status="new"/>
<vrmlist status="new">
<vrm version="1" release="0" modification="0"/>
</vrmlist>
</prodinfo>
</metadata>
<change-historylist>
<change-item>
<change-person/>
<change-completed/>
<change-summary/>
</change-item>
</change-historylist>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<section id="section_e5p_vhr_tjb">
<p id="p_i5p_vhr_tjb">Since DITA is an open standard, it can of course be edited from any text editor such as Notepad++ or other text editing tools. However, most editing tools don’t have support for the specific DITA standard. For this you need a DITA authoring tool. The following tools are used within our company:</p>
</section>
<section id="section_hml_whr_tjb">
<title>Technical editors</title>
<p id="p_iml_whr_tjb">These editors give you the ability to ‘hide’ the tags while writing, allowing you to focus on the content while still writing structured XML documents.<ul id="ul_rgh_b3r_tjb">
<li><xref href="https://www.adobe.com/be_en/products/framemaker.html" format="html" scope="external">Adobe FrameMaker</xref> in Structured mode. In structured mode, you can edit DITA XML documents right from the familiar FrameMaker interface.</li>
<li><xref href="co_oxygen_xml.dita"/> is an editor especially for DITA. It consists of a few separate packages, with an ever-growing range of products:<ul id="ul_b3v_hjr_tjb">
<li><xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_editor.html" format="html" scope="external">Oxygen XML Editor</xref> is the complete package, meant for people that do technical writing as well as developing DITA Schemas and transformations.</li>
<li><xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_author.html" format="html" scope="external">Oxygen XML Author</xref> is meant for technical writers. With this package you get a more user-friendly interface and most complicated DITA options are well-hidden in the interface.</li>
<li><xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_web_author.html" format="html" scope="external">Oxygen XML Web Author</xref> builds on the Oxygen XML Author version, allowing online collaboration between different teams and automatic cloud storage.</li>
<li><xref href="https://www.oxygenxml.com/xml_developer.html" format="html" scope="external">Oxygen XML Developer</xref> is meant for documentation architects and designers. It is a tool you can use to determine how the documentation in the team should be structured and what the output should look like.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>
<draft-comment author="Kimberley.De.Moor">@PJ: <p id="p_cmm_53l_wjb">Bestaat er ook een element voor de naam van softwareprogramma's?</p><p id="p_jpv_53l_wjb">Ik heb van alle softwareprogramma's de link naar de website in deze topic gestoken; enkel "Oxygen XML" verwijst naar een topic in de webhelp. Is dit goed zo?</p></draft-comment>
</li>
</ul></p>
</section>
<section id="section_rjm_rjr_tjb">
<title>User-friendly editors</title>
<p id="p_sjm_rjr_tjb">DITA and XML both have a reputation of being complicated, with their tags and attributes. Recently, however, more and more user-friendly editors are being developed.</p>
<p id="p_zz3_5jr_tjb">Some examples:<ul id="ul_igs_5jr_tjb">
<li><xref href="https://www.fontoxml.com/" format="html" scope="external">Fonto Editor</xref>, made in The Netherlands, can be useful for the following scenario:<ol id="ul_zww_1kr_tjb">
<li>Subject Matter Experts (SME’s) write reasonable structured topics</li>
<li>Technical writer improves structure within the Fonto Editor or an alternative DITA-editor</li>
</ol></li>
<li><xref href="http://paligo.net/" format="html" scope="external">Paligo</xref>, made in Sweden</li>
</ul></p>
</section>
</conbody>
</concept>
